feat: learn the date object by building a date formatter (#50504)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/15-javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures-22/learn-the-date-object-by-building-a-date-formatter/651cef4ba6d4d2013e2af915.md

---
id: 651cef4ba6d4d2013e2af915
title: Step 22
challengeType: 0
dashedName: step-22
---

# --description--

> Inside the case of `mm-dd-yyyy-h-mm`, assign `${month}-${day}-${year} ${hours} Hours ${minutes} Minutes` inside the `textContent` property of the `currentDateParagraph` constant. This will display the date in the format `Month, Day, Year, Hours, Minutes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the `case` for `mm-dd-yyyy-h-mm`, set the `textContent` property of `currentDateParagraph` to `${month}-${day}-${year} ${hours} Hours ${minutes} Minutes`.

And with that, your date formatter is complete! You can now format the current date three different ways.
```

# --hints--

> You should assign `${month}-${day}-${year} ${hours} Hours ${minutes} Minutes` inside the `textContent` property of the `currentDateParagraph` constant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should use the `textContent` property to set the text content of `currentDateParagraph` to `${month}-${day}-${year} ${hours} Hours ${minutes} Minutes`.
```

  justify-content: center;
  gap: 8px;
}

.title {
  font-size: 2.5rem;
}

.date-svg{
  width: 30px;
  height: 30px;
}

.divider {
  margin: auto;
  width: 150px;
  height: 10px;
  background-color: var(--yellow);
}

.dropdown-container {
  width: 100%;
  margin: 40px auto;
  position: relative;
}

select {
  display: block;
  margin: 20px auto;
  height: 50px;
  font-size: 100%;
  font-weight: bold;

  cursor: pointer;
  background-color: var(--white);
  border: none;
  color: var(--dark-grey);
  appearance: none;
  padding: 10px 38px 10px 10px;
}

.select-icon{
  position: absolute;
  top: 4px;
  right: 4px;
  pointer-events: none;
  width: 30px;
  height: 36px;
  padding-left: 4px;
}

#current-date{
  font-size: 2rem;
  text-align:center;
}
```

```js
const currentDateParagraph = document.getElementById("current-date");
const dateOptionsSelectElement = document.getElementById("date-options");

const date = new Date();
const day = date.getDate();
const month = date.getMonth() + 1;
const year = date.getFullYear();
const hours = date.getHours();
const minutes = date.getMinutes();

const formattedDate = `${day}-${month}-${year}`;
currentDateParagraph.textContent = formattedDate;

> dateOptionsSelectElement.addEventListener("change", () => {
>   switch(dateOptionsSelectElement.value) {
>     case 'yyyy-mm-dd':
>       currentDateParagraph.textContent = formattedDate
>       .split("-")
>       .reverse()
>       .join("-")
>     break;
> --fcc-editable-region--
>     case "mm-dd-yyyy-h-mm":
>       currentDateParagraph.textContent = ``;
>       break;
> --fcc-editable-region--
>     default: 
>       currentDateParagraph.textContent = formattedDate
>     break
>   }
> })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dateOptionsSelectElement.addEventListener("change", () => {
  switch (dateOptionsSelectElement.value) {
    case "yyyy-mm-dd":
      currentDateParagraph.textContent = formattedDate
        .split("-")
        .reverse()
        .join("-");
      break;
--fcc-editable-region--
    case "mm-dd-yyyy-h-mm":
      currentDateParagraph.textContent = ``;
      break;
--fcc-editable-region--
    default:
      currentDateParagraph.textContent = formattedDate;
  }
});
```

  justify-content: center;
  gap: 8px;
}

.title {
  font-size: 2.5rem;
}

.date-svg{
  width: 30px;
  height: 30px;
}

.divider {
  margin: auto;
  width: 150px;
  height: 10px;
  background-color: var(--yellow);
}

.dropdown-container {
  width: 100%;
  margin: 40px auto;
  position: relative;
}

select {
  display: block;
  margin: 20px auto;
  height: 50px;
  font-size: 100%;
  font-weight: bold;

  cursor: pointer;
  background-color: var(--white);
  border: none;
  color: var(--dark-grey);
  appearance: none;
  padding: 10px 38px 10px 10px;
}

.select-icon{
  position: absolute;
  top: 4px;
  right: 4px;
  pointer-events: none;
  width: 30px;
  height: 36px;
  padding-left: 4px;
}

#current-date{
  font-size: 2rem;
  text-align:center;
}
```

```js
const currentDateParagraph = document.getElementById("current-date");
const dateOptionsSelectElement = document.getElementById("date-options");

const date = new Date();
const day = date.getDate();
const month = date.getMonth() + 1;
const year = date.getFullYear();
const hours = date.getHours();
const minutes = date.getMinutes();

const formattedDate = `${day}-${month}-${year}`;
currentDateParagraph.textContent = formattedDate;

> dateOptionsSelectElement.addEventListener("change", () => {
>   switch(dateOptionsSelectElement.value) {
>     case 'yyyy-mm-dd':
>       currentDateParagraph.textContent = formattedDate
>       .split("-")
>       .reverse()
>       .join("-")
>     break;
>     case "mm-dd-yyyy-h-mm":
>       currentDateParagraph.textContent = `${month}-${day}-${year} ${hours} Hours ${minutes} Minutes`;
>       break;
>     default: 
>       currentDateParagraph.textContent = formattedDate
>     break
>   }
> })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dateOptionsSelectElement.addEventListener("change", () => {
  switch (dateOptionsSelectElement.value) {
    case "yyyy-mm-dd":
      currentDateParagraph.textContent = formattedDate
        .split("-")
        .reverse()
        .join("-");
      break;
    case "mm-dd-yyyy-h-mm":
      currentDateParagraph.textContent = `${month}-${day}-${year} ${hours} Hours ${minutes} Minutes`;
      break;
    default:
      currentDateParagraph.textContent = formattedDate;
  }
});
```
